# Lagun-EX
This document is the final report of an individual research objective related to a measurement campaign which goes under the name: \lq Lagun-EX\rq. This fieldwork is part of the course Fieldwork Hydraulic Engineering at the Delft University of Technology and took place in week 39 of 2018. The site of the fieldwork campaign is located at the Sand Engine between Kijkduin and Ter Heijde along the ‘Westland’ coastal cell of the Dutch coast.

Local  (mega)  nourishments  are  soft  solutions  regarding  the  deficit  in  the  sediment  budget  of  a certain  coastal  system  and  are  expected  to  be  more  efficient,  economical,  and  environmentally friendly in the long term than conventional beach and shoreface nourishments (Stive et al., 2013).The Sand Engine is an innovative and experimental example of such a coastal reinforcement which was constructed in 2011 in which 21.5 million cubic meters of sand is deposited between Kijkduin and Ter Heijde.  

One of the morphodynamic features of the Sand Engine is the development of a lagoon inside the Sand Engine in which channels do connect the basin to the open sea.  In order to get more insight in  the  hydrodynamic  and  morphodynamic  character  of  such  lagoons,  a  measurement  campaign has been setup at the Sand Engine in which the central theme of the fieldwork was to research the exchange  and  development  of  (artificial)  basins.   A  small,  artificial  lagoon  has been  constructed  and the  development  of  the  lagoon  has been  be  tracked  by  different  students.   A  total  of  nine  Hydraulic Engineering master students have contributed with individual research objectives and experiments to the general theme during the fieldwork.

One of the factors which affect the development of the artificial lagoon is the wave climate. Since the artificial lagoon is a disturbance in the morphodynamic equilibrium, the wave activity, amongst other influences (e.g.  lagoon shape), will cause the lagoon to develop over time.  The lagoon will either accrete with sediments, restoring the previous equilibrium, or erode to a larger lagoon and hence  forming  a  new  equilibrium. So  tracking  the  wave  activity  nearby  the  lagoon  during  the development of the lagoon will give insight into the relation between the wave hydrodynamics and the development of the lagoon. 

A potential new and innovative way of obtaining measurements of wave hydrodynamics is by applying  a  laser  scanner  (LiDAR).  The  use  of  remote  sensing  techniques  has  become  increasingly popular during the past three decades since this remote techniques are non-intrusive, easily and safely deployed.  This method should make the acquisition of wave measurements more easily in which smaller temporal and spatial scales can be obtained (Martins, Blenkinsopp, & Zang, 2016). This smaller scales might for example be useful to study higher frequency waves at the beach.  Furthermore, the ability of obtaining measurements at multiple locations with just a single LiDAR survey would be more effective w.r.t.  the measurements obtained by a large quantity of conventional, in situ instruments (e.g.  pressure sensors or stilling wells). 

So the research question for this research is as follows:

Can 3D laser scanning techniques be applied to acquire wave characteristics for studying the inner-surf and swash hydrodynamics and in which accuracy range can these measurements be obtained compared to the measurements obtained via conventional instruments?
